MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Operator
Good afternoon. Thank you for attending today's Pinterest, Inc. Fourth Quarter and Full Year
2024 Earnings Call. All lines will be muted during the presentation portion of the call, with an
opportunity for questions and answers at the end.
I'll now hand the call over to Andrew Somberg, Vice President of Investor Relations and
Treasury, to begin. Andrew, you may proceed.
Andrew Somberg
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. Welcome to Pinterest's earnings call for the fourth
quarter and full year ended December 31, 2024. My name is Andrew Somberg and I'm Vice
President of Investor Relations and Treasury for Pinterest. Joining me on today's call are Bill
Ready, Pinterest's CEO; and Julia Donnelly, our CFO.
This conference call is being webcast, and we are also providing a slide presentation to
accompany our commentary. Please refer to our Investor Relations website at
investor.pinterest.com to find today's presentation, webcast, and earnings press release.
Some of the statements that we make today regarding our performance, operations, and
outlook may be considered forward-looking and such statements involve a number of risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. In addition, our results, trends,
and outlook for Q1 2025 and beyond are preliminary and are not an assurance of future
performance.
We are making these forward-looking statements based on information available to us as of
today and we expressly disclaim any duty or obligation to update them later unless required by
law. For more information about risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could affect our
results, please refer to our most recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC and available on our
Investor Relations website.
During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation
of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is included in today's
earnings press release and presentation, which are distributed and available to the public
through our Investor Relations website. Lastly, all growth rates discussed in today's prepared
remarks should be considered year-over-year unless otherwise specified.
And now, I'll turn the call over to Bill.
William J. Ready
Thanks, Andrew. Good afternoon and thank you for joining our fourth quarter and full year 2024
earnings call. My remarks today will cover the progress we made this past year and preview
some of our key initiatives in 2025 to drive continued execution of our long-term goals.
2024 was a transformative year for Pinterest. We reached record high global users, surpassing
550 million MAUs globally and 100 million in UCAN while more than doubling our full year
revenue growth rate from 2023. At the same time, we delivered over $1 billion in adjusted
EBITDA, a roughly 50% increase as we continue to drive profitable growth.
Our 2024 results are a testament that our long-term strategy is working. We've transformed our
user experience to focus on why people come to Pinterest, investing in actionability, relevance,
and curation, all while distinguishing ourselves as a positive place online.
The user journey from inspiration to action maps directly to our advertiser funnel, allowing
advertisers to reach users at every stage of their purchase journey. And in today's advertising
environment, proving performance has never been more important. As such, we've spent the
last 2.5 years building a suite of lower funnel tools that captures our users' inherent commercial
intent.
Our efforts are paying off. In Q4, we achieved our first $1 billion revenue quarter as we grew
revenue 18% and drove a record number of clicks during the critical holiday season. As we look
forward to 2025, we intend to double down on the multi-year initiatives that underpin our
strategy. We'll continue to leverage AI and our unique first-party signal to drive a more
personalized and relevant experience for our users. At the same time, we'll invest in our curation
experiences and the shopability of our platform to allow our users to move more seamlessly
from inspiration to action. Finally, we'll continue to innovate and improve our lower funnel tools,
allowing advertisers to successfully reach customers who are demonstrating high commercial
intent.
Now, like last quarter, I'll start with an overview of how we're utilizing AI to drive results across
our business. AI is deeply integrated into nearly every aspect of our user experience and
advertising business, but AI is only as good as a signal it acts upon. In the Pinterest, we have
very unique signal. We have hundreds of billions of first-party user actions on our platform,
including acts of human curation that give us unique insight into each individual pins'
relationship not just to the user who saved it, but also to the ideas and aesthetic reflected by the
content of the board it is saved in and the search queries related to it.
These associations between pins, searches, boards, products, and users make up our Taste
Graph, which is the foundation of our AI recommendation engines and is used to amplify the
quality of our computer vision and discovery experiences. In practice, our Taste Graph is an
essential part of the AI that determines the content we show our users and why users find our
recommendations so highly relevant.
As our platform has grown and as we've incorporated more signals from user actions, our Taste
Graph has become more dense with more connections and associations between pins,
searches, boards, products, and users. In fact, our Taste Graph contains many billions of
connections and has grown by 75% over the past two years, bridging together user activity,
content, and products across the platform.
This larger Taste Graph enhances our ability to understand how images and products are
related and surface exceptionally relevant content. For example, if we know a user is searching
for and saving to a board labeled Super Bowl outfits, we recommend ideas based on the activity
of all the other users on Pinterest who have similar taste and fashion and are interacting with
game day apparel.
And since we know this user is likely hosting or attending a Super Bowl party, we're able to help
users laterally explore their taste to find other content or use cases that might be interesting to
them like game day decor or recipes that are personalized and relevant to them based on what
we know about them from our Taste Graph. In doing so, we can drive deeper engagement and
encourage revisitation, thereby strengthening our flywheel.
Looking back at 2024, I want to highlight a few key AI-based initiatives, many of which have
been informed by our taste graph that have led to positive outcomes across the business. We've
made a lot of progress incorporating more context on user history into our recommendation
algorithms.
In 2024, we leveraged cutting edge machine learning techniques and increased the context
window on user actions such as saves and clicks that fed into our AI-based model by over 30
fold. More context on users and more powerful machine learning models mean a deeper
understanding of the content they might enjoy. And as a result, we saw approximately 250 basis
points of lift in saves and a 150 basis point lift in outbound clicks across the platform.
Importantly, through our team's deep technical expertise, our engineering teams were able to
achieve this thirtyfold increase in signal ingestion at only a fractional increase in infrastructure
spend.
On the monetization side, our AI-powered whole page optimization product has enabled us to
flex up relevant ad load to users in moments of high commercial intent. This means we can
show users in the lower funnel phase of their shopping journey more ads to help them take
action and convert while keeping ad load lighter when users are in an upper funnel discovery
phase. We've also made investments to keep the relevance bar high for our ads. In fact,
relevance on our search surface has more than doubled for top ad slots over the past two years.
Since our users come with commercial intent, these ads are additive to the user journey.
We're also utilizing AI internally to promote employee productivity across our engineering team.
Coding assistants help our developers accelerate code production and improve code quality.
The majority of our engineering team uses coding assistants and 15% of our current code base
is generated through AI.
Lastly, I'd be remiss not to point out Performance+
, which I'll talk about in more depth later on in
my remarks. Performance+ is a key advancement in our lower funnel ad product suite that
utilizes AI to bring greater performance and better efficiency to our advertisers while automating
much of the campaign setup process.
With that, I'd also like to discuss some of the user and engagement wins from Q4 and 2024.
Throughout 2024, we focused heavily on improving the user experience and the reasons users
came to Pinterest in the first place. This meant investing in a better curation experience through
boards and collages and driving further actionability across our core surfaces.
In Q4, we continued to deepen our efforts to show users how they could utilize Pinterest for
shopping. Holiday shopping season kicked off with a bang and we saw users with high
commercial intent lean into Pinterest to find and shop the best ideas and products for their loved
ones.
Our holiday shopping efforts, which included gift guides and promotions, drove deeper, more
actionable sessions and helped more users find and buy the perfect gift on Pinterest. For
example, we created gift guides spanning 27 categories from fashion and beauty to travel and
gaming, partnering with celebrities, creators, and brands to showcase nearly 40,000 of the best
products from our catalog, a mix of both expertly curated and Pinterest-recommended content
to maximize relevance for our users.
We then distributed these guides through personalized recommendation modules, showcasing
the guides that are the most relevant to a user's interest, past activity, and search queries. We
saw gift guides resonate with users as click-through rates from products recommended through
gift guides were over 40% higher than the average product pin. I'm pleased that our efforts to
improve the actionability of our platform are paying off in the form of another quarter of record
users.
At the same time, we reported our highest-ever weekly active to monthly active user ratio of
62% in 2024. This means users are coming back more frequently as we continue to drive strong
product market fit and performance for advertisers. In fact, in Q4, we grew clicks to advertisers
over 90% even after lapping the initial launch of direct links that began in Q4 of last year, which
is clear evidence that showing more relevant and shoppable content aligns with both the needs
of our users and advertisers.
Next, I want to mention one of my favorite reports that we share annually, Pinterest Predicts.
Using consumer insights and predictive analytics-based user behavior like clicks, saves, and
searches that happen on Pinterest every day, we've identified the 20 emerging Pinterest trends
that we believe will hit the mainstream in 2025. And over the last five years, 80% of the
predictions we've made have come true.
These trends reveal what people will shop, try, and buy next across all verticals. For example,
our trend, Cherry Coded, predicts that Gen Z and millennials will infuse cherry into their
makeup, menus, and aesthetics this year and trend, Peak Travel, predicts that mountain ranges
will become the ultimate travel destination for Gen Z and Gen X.
Pinterest Predicts also serves as a valuable lever for advertisers to reach customers by aligning
company initiatives with up-and-coming trends. Marriott Bonvoy leaned in to the Peak Travel
trend, partnering with Pinterest to bring it to life through a pop-up concierge desk in New York
City, surprising people with Peak Travel-themed giveaways.
They're also sponsoring the trend on the platform through an exclusive Predicts badge that will
be live throughout 2025 on a variety of Peak Travel-related pins that highlight exciting Marriott
Bonvoy properties in mountainous locals.
Looking to 2025, I'm incredibly excited for the evolution of our platform as we further lean in to
product features that can grow users, deepen engagement, and increase revisitation. We'll
continue to invest in why users come to Pinterest and what makes our platform valuable to
advertisers. This means further investing in curation functionality that allows users to identify
and refine their tastes and incorporating actionability throughout our core surfaces to allow
users to take action and shop the products they love.
Next, I'd like to discuss how we are improving monetization by increasing Pinterest's value and
performance for advertisers. In 2024, we made impressive strides against our monetization
priorities, particularly to transform our ad platform into a true lower funnel performance engine,
which led us to deliver 19% revenue growth in 2024 compared to 9% in 2023.
Looking back at some of our key lower funnel launches, we began with mobile deep linking and
direct links to bring users directly to an advertiser's web or mobile property, enabling us to
significantly grow clicks. We complemented these efforts with adoption of our privacy-centric
measurement tools to prove our performance, giving advertisers the tools they need to
accurately measure spend and vote with their dollars.
We also created new formats like promotion ads to help retailers showcase special offers during
key promotional periods. Advertisers leaned into this format over the Q4 holiday season, with
those who included a promotion for their conversion campaign seeing an 18% increase in
conversion rate compared to the same ads without a promotion.
Finally, we built and launched Performance+ to transform the advertiser experience, driving
performance improvements through lower CPCs and CPAs and automating much of their
campaign workflow. These efforts culminated in a record Q4 as we delivered over $1 billion in
revenue in a single quarter for the first time in our company's history, with our ad platform
delivering significant gains compared to last year given all the product innovation I just laid out.
Digging into Q4, our advertisers saw immense value creation with over 90% growth in clicks to
advertisers year-over-year. On top of over 100% growth last Q4, as we lapped the initial direct
links product rollout, the value we created also led to significant value capture as retailers
leaned into Pinterest to drive results. In fact, we saw the largest volume of revenue ever over
the Cyber 5 holiday surge while simultaneously decreasing CPAs by over 30% year-over-year.
In 2025, we have a strong road map to continue to drive value to advertisers and capture
additional share of wallet. Performance+ is one component of this. Stepping back, it's worth
noting that Performance+ is at the beginning of a multi-year product cycle.
We will continue to release new features and functionality while simultaneously continuing to
drive adoption and increase the percent of revenue eligible to take advantage of key features
within the automation suite. And while we're still early, I'm excited about the momentum we're
building.
We're seeing performance improvements, positive advertiser feedback on the simplified
campaign setup, and promising initial adoption of Performance+ campaigns and features while
recognizing it's still in the early phases of rolling out. Expanding on our launch from last fall, we'll
also build new features for Performance+ in 2025, including enhanced bidding and creative
functionality.
ROAS bidding, which optimizes bids to maximize return on ad spend, will be live to all eligible
advertisers by the end of Q1. A large retailer with a sizable product catalog leaned in to this
product and saw strong results with a significant improvement in return on ad spend in their
internal measurement system. Following their test, the retailer increased their shopping budget
in Q4 to take advantage of the strong results.
Our Performance+ creative tools will also be an area of focus in 2025. We're doubling down to
give advertisers more creative control, which we've seen have a positive impact on their
performance. That means automated cropping, adjusting image brightness, and adding logo
overlays so their brand is present, all of which we expect to add in the first half of this year.
Complementing the lower funnel product set is our commitment to improving conversion visibility
and measurement. This helps advertisers build stronger, more accurate data foundations that
they need in order to scale their budgets on Pinterest.
Advertisers use a variety of different methods to see and measure their spend. In order to show
up as accurately as possible wherever an advertiser is measuring their spend, we'll invest in
scalable ways to continue to connect our conversion data into third-party measurement sources
of truth.
Our lower funnel advertiser offering is made possible by our ability to make ads relevant content
for our users. As we've long said, when users come to Pinterest, they have a very different
mindset than traditional social media, often coming to invest in themselves, find inspiration,
shop, and take action. If you take our three main surfaces, home feed, search, and related pins,
you can see the purchase funnel come to life. With roughly one-third of our engagement on the
home feed while lower funnel search and related pins, a form of visual search, make up roughly
two-thirds of our engagement. Because of this, relevant ads can improve the user experience
and drive even more value to advertisers by more efficiently reaching the right audience at the
right time.
This flywheel improves over time as more intent signals feed more relevant content to help
users shop and provide even more intent signals. Moreover, we have tangible evidence that the
flywheel is working. Monthly active users continue to grow double digits reaching all-time highs
each consecutive quarter of 2024.
Ad impressions are growing while clicks to advertisers are growing faster than ad impressions
and ad relevance on our search surface doubled over the past two years as our models are able
to capture more signals and more efficiently place ads in the right place at the right time. In
2025, we are continuing to leverage AI to grow ad load while growing users, improving
relevance and increasing shopping and actionability on the platform.
Finally, I'll touch briefly on our monetization initiative to diversify demand through partnerships
and international growth. 2024 marked a year of scaling our first third- party demand
partnerships with Amazon Ads and Google. We complemented these efforts by launching
resellers in 30 markets in Q3. These efforts are paying off as Rest of World revenue growth
accelerated throughout 2024.
As I think about all we've accomplished in 2024, I'm filled with pride about the work our teams
delivered across our strategic priorities and feel optimistic about what's to come in the year
ahead. More importantly, I'm proud of how we are building our business.
We've proven that a business model built on positivity not only benefits our users, particularly
our Gen Z users, who value Pinterest as a place to manifest their dreams away from the toxicity
found elsewhere on social media, but it leads to better business outcomes. We've consciously
invested in products and policies that tune AI for positivity and ultimately help our users feel
their best.
For example, body type ranges and skin tone and hair pattern search let our users see
themselves represented in the content on the platform. In fact, users who search with these
refinement tools save on average 75% more pins than users who search without using these
tools. Additionally, our ethos around positivity is a unique value proposition to advertisers who
wish to align their brand with a positive environment.
And with that said, I'll turn the call over to Julia to share more details about our financial
performance in Q4.
Julia B. Donnelly
Thanks, Bill, and good afternoon, everyone. Today, I'll be discussing our full year and fourth
quarter 2024 financial results and provide an update on our preliminary first quarter 2025
outlook. All financial metrics except for revenue will be discussed in non-GAAP terms unless
otherwise specified, and all comparisons will be discussed on a year-over-year basis unless
otherwise noted.
Before I dive into the details of the fourth quarter, I want to pause and reiterate Bill's comments
about how 2024 was a transformative year for Pinterest. Last year, we generated $3.65 billion in
revenue, representing 19% growth, more than doubling our growth rate from 2023.
Importantly, this growth illustrates the significant progress we've made to become a true full
funnel platform. We grew revenue primarily from our lower funnel clicks and conversions-based
objectives, which signal that our new lower funnel performance tools and strategy are working.
We've also remained strategic about our investments, focusing on high ROI opportunities
across users and monetization. This includes utilizing AI to improve personalization and content
recommendation to enhance the user experience and building automation tools to drive better
performance for advertisers.
And we're doing this all while continuing to exercise expense discipline. This focus on profitable
growth has led to a roughly 50% increase in adjusted EBITDA dollars year-over-year in 2024,
with margins expanding by 510 basis points. Finally, we achieved a significant milestone in
2024, reaching GAAP profitability on a net income basis for the first time since 2021.
Now, let's dive into the fourth quarter. We ended the quarter with 553 million global monthly
active users or MAUs, growing 11% and reaching another record high. Users also continued to
grow year-over-year across all of our geographic regions.
In Q4, our US and Canada region had 101 million MAUs, accelerating to 4% growth. Our
Europe region had 145 million MAUs, growing 7%. And in the Rest of World markets, we had
307 million MAUs, growing 15%.
Moving to revenue, in Q4, our global revenue was $1.154 billion, up 18% on a reported and
constant currency basis. The revenue strength this quarter highlights how we are driving value
for advertisers across the full funnel, with particular strength coming from our lower funnel
consideration objective, which optimizes for clicks.
From a vertical perspective, we continue to see broad-based strength in retail. Additionally,
emerging verticals like technology and financial services continue to be a source of strength.
As expected, growth was partially offset by softness within the food and beverage subsector of
CPG. Additionally, as a reminder, unlike other platforms, we do not accept political advertising
and therefore did not see a benefit from election-related spend in Q4.
While the majority of our growth came from our core first-party demand generated by our
internal sales force, as expected, we also saw revenue from third-party demand partnerships
ramp in Q4, growing sequentially off the revenue base we delivered in Q3 as they continued to
round out gaps in our auction and complement our growing first-party demand.
Turning to our geographical breakout for Q4, in the US and Canada, we generated $900 million
in revenue, growing 16%. Strength came from retail and emerging categories, including
technology and financial services. In Europe, revenue was $196 million, growing 21% on a
reported basis or 20% on a constant currency basis. Strength in Europe was driven by retail.
Revenue from Rest of World was $58 million, growing 44% on a reported basis or 53% on a
constant currency basis.
In Q4, ad impressions grew 43% while ad pricing declined 18% year-over-year. As we've
discussed for multiple quarters, our efforts to begin serving ads and monetize international
markets or previous gaps in our auction have been accretive to net revenue. However, as we've
begun to scale these initiatives, it has naturally led to an increase in ad impressions growth and
downward pressure on overall global platform pricing due to this ongoing mix shift.
Moving to expenses, in Q4, cost of revenue was $191 million, up 10% year-over-year and up
5% versus Q3 due to increased infrastructure spend related to users and engagement growth.
Our non-GAAP operating expense was $496 million, up 12%. The increase was primarily due to
R&D where we are investing in head count with a smaller increase in sales and marketing.
Our revenue strength and expense discipline led to another strong quarter of adjusted EBITDA
coming in at $471 million with an adjusted EBITDA margin of 41%, an increase of 320 basis
points versus Q4 last year. In Q4, we also recorded a $1.6 billion income tax benefit. This was
driven by the release of a valuation allowance against a significant portion of our US deferred
tax assets due to our sustained profitability and continued forecasted income.
I'd like to take a moment now to discuss our cash flow. Our ability to generate significant free
cash flow, which we define as cash flow from operating activities less purchases of property and
equipment, speaks to the inherent profitability of our business and asset-light nature of our
model. For the full year 2024, free cash flow increased 55% to $940 million. This compares to
2024 adjusted EBITDA of $1.0 billion, representing free cash flow conversion of 91%. Investors
should analyze our free cash flow annually as quarterly free cash flow can fluctuate due to the
seasonality of our business, among other factors. We ended the quarter with cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities of $2.5 billion.
As a reminder, at our Investor Day in fall 2023, we laid out the four pillars of our capital
allocation framework, which remain unchanged. First, investing in product and technology
innovation; second, balance sheet optimization; third, dilution management; and fourth,
preserving flexibility for opportunistic and disciplined M&A.
In Q4, we made further progress mitigating dilution as we allocated $100 million towards share
repurchases, bringing our full year 2024 share repurchases to $600 million for a total of 19.1
million shares. In addition, we utilized $390 million of cash in the year on net share settlement of
equity awards. Combined for full year 2024, these actions have driven an approximately 1.7%
decline in year-over-year fully diluted share count.
Now, I'll discuss our preliminary guidance for the first quarter. Please note that starting this
quarter, we are transitioning to provide adjusted EBITDA guidance and will no longer provide an
outlook for non-GAAP operating expenses.
We expect Q1 revenue to be in the range of $837 million to $852 million, representing 13% to
15% growth year-over-year or 15% to 17% growth on a constant currency basis as our
guidance assumes the impact of foreign exchange to be approximately 2 points of headwind
based on current spot rates. Our guidance also reflects the effects of lapping Leap Day and the
earlier Easter timing in Q1 2024.
We expect Q1 adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $155 million to $170 million. We anticipate
Q1 2025 non-GAAP cost of revenue expense to be relatively consistent with Q4 2024. Within
non-GAAP operating expense, our primary area of investment will continue to be head count
within R&D, which will support our efforts in AI as well as other product initiatives, which
enhance the user experience and monetization.
Last year, we made significant progress in margin expansion towards our long-term goals,
growing 2024 adjusted EBITDA margin by 510 basis points year-over-year. We expect margin
expansion again in 2025, though we anticipate the rate of margin expansion to be lower than
the outsized expansion we delivered in 2024 as we continue to invest behind our initiatives and
drive profitable growth.
In closing, I'm extremely pleased with our team's performance in Q4 and full year 2024. We
have made significant progress against our strategic priorities, growing users and engagement,
executing on our lower funnel opportunity all while driving profitable growth.
With that, I'll hand it over to Bill for some final words.
William J. Ready
Thanks, Julia. I want to thank our teams at Pinterest, our advertising partners, and all the people
that come to Pinterest to find inspiration and to shop.
And with that, we can open the call up for questions.
QUESTION AND ANSWER SECTION
Operator
Thank you. We'll now open the line for questions. The first question is from the line of Eric
Sheridan with Goldman Sachs. You may proceed.
Question – Eric J. Sheridan: Thanks so much for taking the question and thanks for all the
details in the prepared remarks. Bill, prepared remarks, I want to know what your key takeaways
are from 2024 in terms of how the platform evolved? And maybe with the eye forward, what are
the two or three biggest strategic priorities you're setting up to try to execute against based on
those learnings in 2024 as we proceed deeper into 2025? Thanks so much.
Answer – William J. Ready: Thanks, Eric. If we take a step back, 2024, as I mentioned, was a
transformative year for our business. We more than doubled our revenue growth rate, going
from 9% growth in 2023 to 19% in 2024. We brought on a record number of users while
deepening engagement as best evidenced by our highest-ever weekly active to monthly active
ratio.
We just finished Q4 at 18% revenue growth and are guiding Q1 15% to 17% on a constant
currency basis. So, all this really represents the considerable progress against our stated longer
term goals, and we feel good about sustainability of the revenue growth that we've been driving.
So, as a result, we're doubling down on our strategy, and we see multiple initiatives with strong
balanced execution to drive our growth in 2025 and beyond.
First, is continuing to grow our user base and deepen engagement, and bring back users more
frequently through our efforts in actionability and curation. As we stated many times, relevant
ads can be great content for our users and additive to the user experience, particularly when
they're in commercial context. And as such, we see room to further grow our ad load,
particularly in high-intent surfaces and verticals on our platform, and for those users that, again,
are in a commercial mindset.
Secondly, we'll continue to drive improved performance for advertisers through lower funnel
product innovation and ad platform efficiencies. Performance+
, which we just rolled out late last
year, will continue to be enhanced through features like ROAS bidding and Performance+
creative. As I've always said, we expect Performance+ to be a steady build with a multi-year
product and adoption cycle. No hockey stick in growth in one particular quarter, but a steady
build over a multi-year product and adoption cycle.
And finally, we'll continue to complement our strong and growing first-party business through
new sources of demand as you've seen us do through the launch of resellers and third-party
partners. And we'll continue to optimize and test with incremental sources of demand over time.
Answer – Julia B. Donnelly: And maybe just to add a little bit more color there from a vertical
standpoint, retail has been strong for us in 2024, and there's certainly more room to go there in
2025. We continue to see opportunities to capture more value from the clicks we're driving,
especially as we roll out Performance+ to the lower funnel and more granular bidding
functionality, allowing advertisers to effectively bid on a wider swath of their catalogs.
As I noted in the prepared remarks, emerging verticals such as financial services and
technology also continue to remain a nice driver for us. We saw strength in those categories in
Q4 and really much of 2024. Those are ad verticals with billions of dollars in digital ad spend,
and we still have a very small percentage market share today. So, we see lots of opportunity
there.
Within the food and beverage subsector of CPG, which was softer in 2024 due to
category-specific headwinds, in 2025, we begin to anniversary the weaker trends in that
category. And while we are seeing very early green shoots there in Q1, it's too early to say the
headwind in food and beverage is fully behind us. So, as Bill described, we have several
initiatives at play, and we continue to feel confident in the sustainability of our current trajectory
and the steady ongoing execution of our plans.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from Brian Nowak with Morgan Stanley. Your line's now open.
Question – Unidentified speaker: Thanks for taking the question. This is Nat on for Brian. Can
you talk a little bit about the GPU-enabled machine learning and GenAI areas that you think can
be the most material drivers to further platform improvement in 2025? Thanks.
Answer – William J. Ready: Certainly. Thanks for the question. As a visual search platform, AI
is a core competency here at Pinterest. Effectively, every pin and product shown as a result of
our cutting edge AI technique and recommendation algorithms that ingest hundreds of billions of
user actions to understand what a user might be interested in. And as I mentioned in the
prepared remarks, those are really unique user actions that only take place on Pinterest where
users are curating, making product associations. And so that's what's really driven significant
improvements in the relevance of our recommendations.
So, our strategy remains unwavering. We're going to continue to invest in AI that drives great
experiences for our users and better performance for our advertisers. This has included things
like switching from CPU to GPU serving to leverage larger models that improve organic and ad
serving, integrating LLM tech into our AI to drive user experiences like guided search and
computer vision tech for experiences like Shop the Look, ways to style, et cetera.
As I also mentioned in the prepared remarks, we're using coding assistants to help engineers
accelerate velocity of produced code, and to help with improving code test coverage and quality.
We see really strong internal uptake in these tools and like I said, roughly 15% of our code base
is AI-generated through these coding assistants.
So, we see these results clearly in our top line numbers with WAU to MAU at an all-time high,
users at an all-time high. Clicks to advertisers continue to be strong even at those all-time high
user numbers. So, again, AI really has a core competency to the platform and I talked about
Performance+ being at the beginning of a multi-year product and adoption cycle. We think
there's a lot of improvement there and again, with what we're seeing in AI, we think we'll
continue to drive great advancements and what we can do for user experience and advertising
performance.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from John Blackledge with TD Securities. Your line's now open.
Question – John Blackledge: Great. Thank you. On the 1Q 2025 guidance, could you discuss
the quarter-to-date advertising trends that you're seeing? And then what are kind of the puts and
takes that got you to the 1Q 2025 revenue outlook? Thank you.
Answer – Julia B. Donnelly: Thanks, John. We just finished Q4 with revenue growth of 18%
and guided Q1 to 15% to 17% on a constant currency basis. And if you look at Q1 on a two-year
stack basis, you'll see our guidance implies a sequential acceleration this quarter.
So, in Q1, we'll look to continue to drive performance across the lower and upper funnel. Our
new lower funnel tool set continues to drive improved value to advertisers, most recently driving
over 90% increase in clicks to advertisers year-over-year in Q4.
We still have more value capture to go as advertisers increasingly turn to Pinterest to drive
performance. We're seeing nice adoption of newer ad formats and capabilities, including
ongoing growth of spotlight ads and the adoption of more granular bidding capabilities to give
advertisers more bidding control across their catalog.
And finally, as Bill mentioned, we're at the beginning of a multi-year product cycle for
Performance+
. We're seeing really good results, but more of the opportunity is in front of us than
behind us. We expect the adoption impact to steadily build as it would with any new product
rollout. And want to reemphasize, it's multi-quarter, multi-years, new functionality continues to
be rolled out.
While challenges still remain within the food and beverage category, we are now lapping the
early stages of that softness, which started in December of 2023. As such, we're expecting the
overall drag from food and beverage to our top line revenue to lessen slightly in Q1 as we start
to see very early signs of green shoots in that category, but it's too early to say the headwind is
fully behind us, and that is factored into our guidance as well. So, those are some of the factors
as we think about Q1 overall in our 15% to 17% constant currency guidance.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from Mark Kelley with Stifel. Your line's now open.
Question – Mark Kelley: Great. Thank you very much. I wanted to ask you, and you touched
on this a little bit in the prepared remarks, but looking back at last year, I guess can you talk
through the contribution from the third-party partnerships? I guess would you characterize them
as in line with expectations, better, maybe a little bit slower? And then how much can we expect
those partnerships to contribute this year? Thanks very much.
Answer – William J. Ready: Thanks, Mark. Since the beginning, we've said that our efforts to
bring in new demand inclusive of third-party demand and resellers was targeted at rounding out
gaps in our auction with a particular focus on improving shopability as a complement to our
first-party sales efforts.
If we step back, we've seen great progress here on multiple fronts. Our platform is more
shoppable than ever as evidenced by the strength of our holiday shopping performance, and
we've made significant progress in rounding out gaps in our auction with first-party relationships
leading the way exactly as we would hope, and new demand efforts providing a complement
when needed. As our capabilities as a true lower funnel platform take hold, we're driving strong
first-party demand.
At the same time, we've enhanced our ability to bring in programmatic demand as well as
demand through resellers. The net effect of that is we've driven significant improvements in the
shopability of our platform by closing gaps in our auction with ads and search results now being
two times as relevant as they were two years ago.
Lastly, as we see strength in our first-party business and advertisers come to us directly, which
is what we want, we're finding we have fewer gaps in our auction, especially in our more mature
markets. Therefore, as the core first-party business grows, it reduces the need for third-party
demand. Again, that's a very healthy dynamic for our overall business.
However, what's exciting is that our capability to ingest demand from many sources such as
resellers and multiple third-party demand partners and thereby reduce gaps in our auction is
more advanced than it's ever been, which allows us to respond more dynamically when and if
there are shifting demand patterns. So, this is an area that we'll continue to optimize and
advance as we move forward.
Julia, anything you'd add there?
Answer – Julia B. Donnelly: Yeah. So, I guess I would say, Mark, thanks for the question.
We've been very consistent that we'll not break out revenue from third-party partners or resellers
separately. We've noted these initiatives were new and began to scale in 2024 with each quarter
ramping sequentially. And we'll continue to test and optimize as we move forward, as Bill noted.
As we've mentioned, there are many levers for growth in 2025, including growing users
engagement, increasing ad load on high-intent surfaces synergistically with that engagement,
improving ad relevance and ongoing kind of full funnel ad product innovation in addition to some
of the opportunities to continue to take share in retail, some of the emerging categories I noted
earlier like financial services and technology. So, on balance, we see multiple initiatives with
strong balanced execution going forward to help drive our growth in 2025.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from Rich Greenfield with LightShed Partners. Your line's now
open.
Question – Rich Greenfield: Thanks for taking the question. Bill and Julia, in the release,
there's the quote people are coming to Pinterest more often and obviously, Bill, you've talked a
few times about the improvement in weeklies to monthly, your weekly users relative to
monthlies. But could you help us understand engagement a bit better?
You've got US MAUs up 4%. Should we take your comments on WAUs growing substantially
faster than MAUs to mean or WAUs growing high single digits, double digits? Like any way to
think about given the importance of the US market to revenues, just how to think about how fast
that engagement metric has grown or any engagement metric within that is growing?
And then you're at 101 million MAUs in the US and Canada. I don't want to put a timeframe, but
is that long-term 150 million? Is the ceiling 200 million? Like how do you think about the
domestic TAM for your business?
Answer – William J. Ready: Yeah. Thanks, Rich. So, yeah, as I noted, our weekly active to
monthly active ratio is at an all-time high for the platform at 62% for our global user base, which
is a sign of deepening engagement even at record number of users other than noted before.
Oftentimes, if you add large volumes of new users, that can be dilutive to your overall
engagement, but yet we still achieved record highs in that weekly active to monthly active ratio.
And it's worth noting you're parsing sort of global versus UCAN. Our WAU to MAU is highest in
our most mature regions like UCAN and Europe. So, I've said for quite a long time that
especially in our mature markets, it's really about deepening engagement per user versus
chasing new users, particularly in our most mature markets. And we're getting the dynamics that
we'd want there with, again, great deepening engagement across the platform, the greater
frequency from weekly to monthly active ratios and with those being highest in our most mature
regions. So, users continue to grow nicely.
As noted, we had another quarter of all-time user highs and our strategy remains the same, to
bring actionability to the forefront of the user experience, drive curation through boards and
collages, and create a positive space for our users, which are increasingly Gen Z as our largest,
fastest-growing audience. So, those efforts around actionability, shopping, curation, really
resonating across our user base, especially with Gen Z and that deeper actionability on the
platform. I also noted that's also leading to clicks to advertisers growing at over 90%
year-on-year in Q4 even after lapping the initial impact of direct links from Q4 of 2023 where
those clicks were up more than 100% year-on-year.
So, even lapping a really strong growth, again, 90% lift in clicks to advertisers. So, really finding
a great dynamic around positive MAU trajectory, positive engagement, and tying the user
engagement to things that are highly monetizable even as users engage more and more with
that.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from the line of Shweta Khajuria with Wolfe Research. Your
line's now open.
Question – Shweta Khajuria: Thanks a lot for taking my question. I guess I have one on ad
products and features. Bill, how should we think about contribution of all this product innovation
that you have done and will do this year as we think about one, two, three years out from
Performance+ to spotlight ads, new bidding capabilities, increasing ad load, deep linking,
everything, and what's to come? What are you most excited about in terms of the magnitude of
the impact and how should we think about when we see the impact from each of these different
things through, call it, one, two, three years? How do you see it evolve? Thank you.
Answer – William J. Ready: Yeah. Thanks for the question. As I mentioned in my remarks,
2024 was quite transformative for us. We more than doubled our revenue growth rate from ‘23
to ‘24, our lower funnel objectives being the strongest. And we've been on a journey over the
last 2.5 years to really make Pinterest a true performance advertising platform. And the things
that we've done, as I've said before, I wouldn't think of them as like one-off launches. They have
compounding effects over not just multiple quarters, but multiple years.
So, we created immense value for advertisers in 2024 through our lower funnel innovation,
including direct links, mobile deep linking, conversion API. Clicks were up 90% in Q4 after
lapping the 100% click growth from the prior year, doubled ad relevance on search. This all
culminated in the doubling of the growth rate in revenue from ‘24 compared to ‘23 and our first
$1 billion quarter in Q4. So, all of these – again, all of these launches are compounding on each
other but that's an effect that we see continuing forward.
As we look forward, we're not changing our strategy. We're doubling down, and there's still a lot
more yield from these various efforts as they continue to mature. For example, Performance+ is
very much in its early days. It just went into general availability in October and this is a longer
term, multi-year innovation cycle and adoption curve. And if you think back to when other
platforms launched similar products, it kicked off multi-year adoption cycles for them as well.
Notably, these platforms were still iterating and enhancing those products today three to four
years after their initial launch. We think about this similarly. There's tremendous benefit yet to
come and more benefit in front of us than behind us. However, we feel really good about the
product performance we've seen, with testing showing a 20% CPA improvement for advertisers
using Performance+ for shopping ad campaigns.
Advertisers also required 50% less inputs to create campaign now, those that are using our
Performance+ products, and that's a significant improvement in campaign setup. So, while early,
advertiser adoption is also going well and with that said, again, it's a multi-year product cycle,
with more the opportunity in front of us than behind us. We'll continue to roll out features in
Performance+ suite over the course of this year and next.
And we'll also introduce Performance+ functionality to more formats and advertisers to grow
eligibility. And just consistent with what we've done over the last 2.5 years, we've usually seen a
steady build, steady execution on these things. Don't think of these as moments in time or as a
hockey stick in a given moment. These have a steady build over time and a compounding effect
of these things as they build on each other. And again, we see that as a multi-year cycle that
we're still in the early innings of.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from the line of Ron Josey with Citigroup. Your line's now open.
Question – Ronald Josey: Great. Thanks for taking the question. Bill, maybe the quick
follow-up to Shweta just there. I really enjoyed your comment not one-time launches, but
compounding over multiple years. We're now a year in the direct links, maybe a year and a
quarter. And so with outbound clicks growing 90%, I would love to hear how advertiser adoption
of the direct links is going, the sales process is going, et cetera, and really how that's
compounding to more advertisers just diverting more always on ad spend.
And then maybe more tactically, with ROAS bidding set to launch, I think, you said end of the
quarter, I'd love to understand just the benefits and the real opportunity around ROAS bidding.
What do you think could – how do we think about what could happen here once launched?
Thank you.
Answer – William J. Ready: Yeah. So, on this compounding effect and direct links, mobile
deep linking, as we talked about before, we launched those in Q4 of 2023 is when we launched
direct links. And we said then that we were focused first on value creation and then value
capture second. So, we launched mobile deep linking, and direct links in the back half of 2023.
Then that gave advertisers a reason to go launch measurement tools with us.
And so we really focused on getting more advertisers adopting our measurement tools through
2024 based on the evidence of the click traffic we were able to drive. And we saw as those
advertisers adopted performance measurement with us, privacy safe measurement that
consistently, that would lead to them being able to see the value that we are driving and then
shifting budgets in our direction.
And we see more of that to go both on that value capture from the measurement
implementations that are happening as well as the next phase of work, which we talked about,
which was after we created the value, made it so they could measure the value. Then with
Performance+
, that makes it so they can easily take action on that value with easy campaign
creation and setup.
And then so we've created tremendous value through direct links, through mobile deep linking
and really just the shopability of our users because it's not just the format change that as we
make shopping better for users, we're seeing users engage more with shopping, clicking more
on the platform, taking action more on the platform, and advertisers taking advantage of all of
that value creation. Again, we see more of that value in front of us than behind us, which is what
gives us a lot of confidence in the pipeline ahead.
There's not just a pipeline of strong products. It's a pipeline of value that we have created that
we're giving advertisers better and better ability to take advantage of. And again, we're still in
the relatively early days of that even though we see very clear signs of those users taking
action.
To give you a tangible example of just how much action we see advertisers taking, for some of
our largest advertisers, the lower funnel revenue objective now accounts for over 80% of their
spend with us, which is up significantly over the last two years. And significantly higher than the
overall mix of lower funnel that we see across the business.
So, when you step back and, say, 2.5 years ago, we embarked on a mission to really turn
Pinterest into a performance advertising platform for some of the largest, most sophisticated
advertisers. We're getting to 5% of their total ad budgets, 10%-plus of their digital ad budgets,
demonstrating that we can be a much larger portion of the overall ad market even as we started
first with those largest advertisers and doing that with focus on durable low funnel budgets,
again, with some of the largest, getting to 80%-plus of their spend in that lower funnel.
And over the course of last year, we've seen this trend for the next tranche of advertisers, think
of, as I've said before, in the $1 billion to $30 billion range in that next tranche is still quite
sizable as they recognize the immense value creation that we've driven in the form of doubling
the amount of clicks year-on-year. We continue to see room to grow share of wallet with both of
these cohorts.
Operator
Thank you. The last question is from Jason Helfstein with Oppenheimer. Your line's now open.
Question – Jason Stuart Helfstein: Thanks. Thanks for taking the question. So, in the quarter,
you saw a sequential improvement in both US and Europe MAU. How should we think about
MAU growth for this year and then how are you thinking about further improvement in the DAU
to MAU ratio after the improvement in 2024? Thank you.
Answer – William J. Ready: So, we don't guide to users. So, I'm not going to answer the
question precisely. But as I've shared in my remarks, we see really positive trajectory in giving
better recommendations to our users, the curation on the platform leading them to work through
more of their decision-making journey and then the actionability that we brought in the platform,
making it easier for them to take action.
So, those are the things when we look at why we're getting to record highs in MAU, the
deepening engagement as evidenced in the WAU to MAU ratios at all-time highs. It is
leveraging AI against our unique signal to make really great recommendations to our users that
are fed by the unique curation signal that we have, and that compounding effect we see
continuing forward. So, while we don't guide to users, the underlying effects that are driving user
engagement and MAU growth, we see those as long-term durable effects.
And as I mentioned in my remarks, we have a lot more to do to continue doubling down on that
work when you think about how much shopping activity occurs in the broader ecosystem, the
size of that market. There's a lot more of that out there for us to capture. So, again, while we
don't guide to users, I think the effects that we see, we believe, are durable and based on the
uniqueness of our platform and we continue to focus on that as we look ahead.
And with that, I'd like to thank all of you again for joining the call and for your questions. We look
forward to keeping the dialogue going, and we hope you enjoy the rest of your day.
Operator
That concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now
disconnect your lines.